README.md, before:

# DICOM File Tag Editor

## Overview

This project is a simple DICOM file tag editor that allows users to view and modify the metadata tags of DICOM files directly in the browser. DICOM (Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine) files are commonly used in medical imaging systems, and this tool aims to provide a lightweight and user-friendly interface for interacting with these files' metadata.

The editor allows users to upload a DICOM file, view its tags (such as Patient Name, Study Date, etc.), and modify the tag values. This application runs entirely in the browser, using HTML, JavaScript, and CSS.

[GitHub Pages](https://universityofsaskatchewancmpt371.github.io/term-project-2025-team-2/)

## Features

- Upload a DICOM file to extract metadata.
- View and edit DICOM file tags.
- Save the modified metadata (though actual file modification is not supported in this version).
- A clean and simple UI for easier navigation.
- PWA (Progressive Web App) support for offline use.
  
## Technologies Used

- **HTML**: Structure and layout of the application.
- **CSS**: Styling and layout for a responsive, clean user interface.
- **JavaScript**: Handling of file uploads, parsing DICOM tags, and enabling tag editing functionality.
- **PWAs (Progressive Web Apps)**: Enabling offline use and improved performance.
- **[dicomParser.js](https://github.com/dcmjs-org/dicom-parser)**: A library used to parse DICOM files and extract metadata tags.

## Installation

### Prerequisites

No installation is required for this application, as it runs entirely in your web browser. You only need a modern web browser (such as Chrome, Firefox, or Edge) to use the editor.

### Steps to Run Locally

1. Clone this repository:
2. Open the `index.html` file in your web browser.
3. Start using the DICOM tag editor by uploading a DICOM file.

## Usage

1. **Upload a DICOM file**: Click the "Upload" button to select a DICOM file from your computer.
2. **View tags**: Once the file is uploaded, the tags from the DICOM file will be listed.
3. **Edit tags**: Modify the value of any editable tags in the provided input fields.
4. **Automatically remove PII**: Optionally, click the "Remove PII" button to automatically remove any personally identifiable information (PII) from the DICOM file.
4. **Save changes**: While the current version only allows you to edit and display tags, saving and updating the file’s actual metadata will be possible in future releases.
5. **Download updated DICOM file**: Click the "Download" button to save the updated DICOM file with the new metadata.

## Example Workflow

1. Click on the "Choose File" button to select a DICOM file or drag and drop the file onto the page.
2. The DICOM file's tags will automatically be displayed on the page.
3. Modify the tags by typing into the input fields next to each tag.
4. The page will display the updated tags in real-time.
5. Save the modified metadata to a new DICOM file.
6. Download the updated DICOM file with the new metadata.
7. Option to automatically remove any personally identifiable information (PII) from the DICOM file.

## License

This project is licensed under TBD

## Acknowledgements

University of Saskatchewan CMPT 371 - Software Engineering Project, 2025 Winter Term

Commit message:

Add license, add docker to readme

README.md, after:

# DICOM File Tag Editor

## Overview

This project is a simple DICOM file tag editor that allows users to view and modify the metadata tags of DICOM files directly in the browser. DICOM (Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine) files are commonly used in medical imaging systems, and this tool aims to provide a lightweight and user-friendly interface for interacting with these files' metadata.

The editor allows users to upload a DICOM file, view its tags (such as Patient Name, Study Date, etc.), and modify the tag values. This application runs entirely in the browser, using HTML, JavaScript, and CSS.

[GitHub Pages](https://universityofsaskatchewancmpt371.github.io/term-project-2025-team-2/)

## Features

- Upload a DICOM file to extract metadata.
- View and edit DICOM file tags.
- Save the modified metadata (though actual file modification is not supported in this version).
- A clean and simple UI for easier navigation.
- PWA (Progressive Web App) support for offline use.
  
## Technologies Used

- **HTML**: Structure and layout of the application.
- **CSS**: Styling and layout for a responsive, clean user interface.
- **JavaScript**: Handling of file uploads, parsing DICOM tags, and enabling tag editing functionality.
- **PWAs (Progressive Web Apps)**: Enabling offline use and improved performance.
- **[dicomParser.js](https://github.com/cornerstonejs/dicomParser)**: A library used to parse DICOM files and extract metadata tags.

## Installation

### Prerequisites

No installation is required for this application, as it runs entirely in your web browser. You only need a modern web browser (such as Chrome, Firefox, or Edge) to use the editor.

### Steps to Run Locally

1. Clone this repository:
2. Open the `index.html` file in your web browser.
3. Start using the DICOM tag editor by uploading a DICOM file.

### Docker Container

A Docker container is provided with Nginx used to sever the application.

## Usage

1. **Upload a DICOM file**: Click the "Upload" button to select a DICOM file from your computer.
2. **View tags**: Once the file is uploaded, the tags from the DICOM file will be listed.
3. **Edit tags**: Modify the value of any editable tags in the provided input fields.
4. **Automatically remove PII**: Optionally, click the "Remove PII" button to automatically remove any personally identifiable information (PII) from the DICOM file.
4. **Save changes**: While the current version only allows you to edit and display tags, saving and updating the file’s actual metadata will be possible in future releases.
5. **Download updated DICOM file**: Click the "Download" button to save the updated DICOM file with the new metadata.

## Example Workflow

1. Click on the "Choose File" button to select a DICOM file or drag and drop the file onto the page.
2. The DICOM file's tags will automatically be displayed on the page.
3. Modify the tags by typing into the input fields next to each tag.
4. The page will display the updated tags in real-time.
5. Save the modified metadata to a new DICOM file.
6. Download the updated DICOM file with the new metadata.
7. Option to automatically remove any personally identifiable information (PII) from the DICOM file.

## License

This project is licensed under MIT License

## Acknowledgements

University of Saskatchewan CMPT 371 - Software Engineering Project, 2025 Winter Term
